SECRETARY OF STATE ANTONY
BLINKEN IS BACK IN ISRAEL
TONIGHT FOR A HIGH STAKES PUSH
TO REDUCE CIVILIAN CASUALTIES
IN GAZA, AND PREVENT VIOLENCE
IN THE REGION FROM SPIRALING
OUT OF CONTROL.
CNN'S JEREMY DIAMOND IS JOINING
US FROM TEL AVIV.
JEREMY, THIS IS A CRITICALLY
IMPORTANT VISIT FOR THE SENATOR
THERIOT STATES.
>> IT CERTAINLY IS WOLFE.
THERE IS SO MUCH ON THE AGENDA
WHETHER IT IS THE NEXT PHASES
OF THIS WAR IN GAZA, WHAT COMES
AFTER THE WAR IN TERMS OF GAZA
RECONSTRUCTION, OR THE CURRENT
HUMANITARIAN SITUATION.
PERHAPS WHAT IS LOOMING LARGEST
ARE THESE MAJOR TENSIONS AT THE
ISRAEL LEBANESE BORDER.
ISRAELI OFFICIALS IN RECENT
DAYS HAVE BEEN WARNING TTHE
DIPLOMATIC WINDOW TO RESOLVE
THIS ISSUE SITUATION IS
CLOSING.
THE SITUATION OF THE NORTH IS
UNTENABLE.
THAT'S WHY THE SECRETARY OF
STATE HAS HAD ALL OF THESE
VISITS IN THE REGION, BUT
TOMORROW PERHAPS WILL BE AMONG
HIS MOST CRITICAL MEETINGS OF
TO TRYING TO DEFUSE THOSE
REGIONAL TENSIONS.
>> JEREMY, I UNDERSTAND YOU
JUST RETURNED FROM REPORTING
INSIDE OF GAZA UNDER AN IDF
ESCORT.
THE ENTIRE TIME CLEARLY.
WHAT DID YOU SEE?
SHARE WITH OUR VIEWERS.
>> WELL WOLF, LIKE SO MANY
OTHER PARTS OF GAZA, CENTRAL
GAZA IS --
THAT HAS BEEN ROCKED BY THIS
THREE MONTH WAR NOW.
OVER THE LAST TWO WEEKS,
ISRAELI MILITARY TROOPS HAVE
ALSO MOVED DEEPER INTO CENTRAL
GAZA, AN AREA WHERE TENS OF
THOUSANDS OF PEOPLE HAVE FLEE
THE FIGHTING IN THE NORTH.
NOW WE DID AS A CONDITION TO
PARTICIPATE IN THIS --
WE WERE REQUIRED TO SUBMIT
FOOTAGE TO THE ISRAELI MILITARY
FOR A SECURITY REVIEW, BUT WE
DID NOT SUMMIT OUR FINAL
REPORT.
WE MAINTAIN FULL EDITORIAL
CONTROL OVER THIS REPORTING.
>> AFTER THREE MONTHS OF WAR,
THIS IS A GLIMPSE OF CENTRAL
GAZA.
>> BUILDINGS FLATTENED OR
PARTIALLY COLLAPSED, OTHERS
RIDDLED WITH BULLETS OR SCARRED
BY SMOKE.
CIVILIANS ARE NOWHERE TO BE
FOUND.
>> THE OUTSKIRTS OF --
ARE NOW UNDER ISRAELI MILITARY
CONTROL.
>> THE ISRAELI MILITARY HAS NOW
BEEN FIGHTING ON THE GROUND
HERE IN CENTRAL GAZA OVER THE
LAST TWO WEEKS.
YOU CAN SEE ALL AROUND MADE THE
RESULTS OF THAT MILITARY
CAMPAIGN.
DESTROYING BUILDINGS, SMOKES
STILL BILLOWING FROM PARTS OF
CENTRAL GAZA.
>> AS THE FIGHTING RAGES, THE
ISRAELI MILITARYS ALSO
UNCOVERING THE SCALE OF HAMAS'S
UNDERGROUND INFRASTRUCTURE.
INVITING CNN INTO CENTRAL GAZA
FOR THE FIRST TIME TO SHOW WHAT
THEY ARE UNCOVERING.
>> ALONGSIDE NOW BULLDOZED
FARMLANDS INSIDE A NONDESCRIPT
BUILDING, THE OPENING TO A
TUNNEL SYSTEM.
>> WE ARE STANDING IN OF
THE MAIN ENTRANCES TO
MANUFACTURING TERROR CENTER.
>> THE ISRAELI MILITARY SAYS
HAMAS USED TO MANUFACTURE IN
TRANSPORT WEAPONS.
>> THIS IS THE ENTRANCE TO A
TITLE THAT THE ISRAELI MILITARY
FOUND IN CENTRAL GAZA.
YOU CAN WALK THROUGH HERE, AND
THEY SAY THAT IF YOU FIND THIS
TUNNEL ALL THE WAY DOWN, YOU
GET A VENTRALLY TO WHAT IS A
WEAPONS MANUFACTURING FACILITY
THAT HAMAS HAS BEEN USING
THROUGHOUT THE WAR.
>> INSIDE THAT FACILITY ISRAELI
COMMANDERS SAY HAMAS BUILDS
ROCKETS AND MORTAR SHELLS LIKE
THESE, AND THEN FILLED THEM
WITH EXPLOSIVE MATERIAL LIKE
FERTILIZER BELOW GROUND.
THE MILITARY DID NOT ALLOW
REPORTERS UNDERGROUND, SEEING
THE CHEMICALS NEEDED TOO
DANGEROUS.
THEY PLAY VIDA THIS VIDEO, IT
SAYS WAS FILMED INSIDE THAT
UNDERGROUND FACILITY.
>> STEPS AWAY IN A WAREHOUSE
ALONGSIDE A RESIDENTIAL
BUILDING, LONG-RANGE ROCKETS
CAPABLE OF REACHING TEL AVIV,
OR JERUSALEM.
>> WHAT WE ARE SEEING IS USING
THE EMBEDDED CIVILIANS
DUSTRIES TO BUILD A ROCKET
INDUSTRY.
>> SOME WOULD SAY THAT YOU ARE
MAKING THE POINT THAT HAMAS AND
CIVILIANS ARE EMBEDDED, THAT
IT'S ALL HAPPENING IN THE SAME
PLACES TO JUSTIFY THE A NORM US
CIVILIAN CASUALTIES THAT YOU
HAVE SEEN IN GAZA SO FAR.
>> WE FOCUS ON HAMAS, NODS --
WE ARE FOCUSING ON OUR WAR ON
HAMAS.
WE ARE NOT FIGHTING THE PEOPLE
OF GAZA.
>> WHEN YOU LOOK AT THE NUMBERS,
THOUSANDS OF CHILDREN WHO HAVE
BEEN KILLED IN GAZA, ARE YOU
DOING A NUMBER OF TO
DISTINGUISH BETWEEN HAMAS
FIGHTERS AND CIVILIANS?
>> EVERY DEATH OF EVERY CHILD
IS A TRAGEDY.
WE DID NOT WANT THIS WAR.
>> MORE THAN 9000 CHILDREN HAVE
BEEN KILLED SO FAR.
ACCORDING TO THE PALESTINIAN
MINISTRY OF HEALTH.
LIKE THIS GIRL PULLED FROM THE
RU IN CENTRAL GAZA.
TENS OF THOUSANDS OF CIVILIANS
WHO FLED THE FIGHTING IN THE
NORTH, NOW AT RISK HERE.
IN --
THEIR ISRAELI MILITARY DROPPED
THESE WARNING FLIERS DAYS AGO,
URGING CIVILIANS TO FLEE TO
NEARBY DARYL --
BUT THE